# Data Management Project: GRAD 521
## 1. Description of data
This research project will attempt to define and quantify the determinants of high school dropout rates by public school district in both Florida and Georgia. Two types of data will be generated during this project as follows:
1. Data table
2. Regression output
The analysis will include a particular focus on the effects of socio-economic indicators, and the demographic makeup of the student body and the surrounding community. The regression model will contain several independent variables, for which data must be collected. These include demographic information percent of the student body that is black, percent hispanic as well as social wellness indicators the teen birth rate, unemployment rate, and violent crime rate in the surrounding counties. Other educational statistics considered will be the district student teacher ratio, as well as the average salary for teachers in the district. These will be compiled into a single CSV file of approximately 100-200 kb. This data will be collected from state and federal public databases, provided by the Florida and Georgia departments of education, and the Federal Reserve. In addition data from countyhealthrankings.org will be used. 
In addition to the input data, regression outputs will also be generated using SPSS during the research process. These will be exported and stored as PDF and CSV files. There will be two regression files, one for Georgia and one for Florida. Each file will be approximately 10-100 kb in size. In total there will be approximately 0.5-1 MB of data generated for the project. They will include the regression table outlining the different parameters and their statistical significance as well as all related descriptive statistics and tables. Specifically, I will generate correlation matrices, residual plots and scatterplots to visualize the relationships between each regressor and the dependent variable (high school dropout rate). 
## 2. Roles and responsibilities
I will be responsible for implementing all aspects of the data management plan. The project and research question were approved by my academic advisor and it is my responsibility as the researcher to gather, format and ensure proper treatment of the data. In the event I leave the project or am unable to complete the research, the academic advisor will take over as the primary overseer of the data and follow the data management plan. Eckerd College, the institution at which the research will be taking place does not currently have a formal data management plan. This means that while the data needs to be managed responsibly the specific requirements are not dictated by such a plan. The research is funded indirectly by the college as the software licenses are provided, along with physical resources such as computers and work space. However, tuition is paid for the right to use this equipment. Beyond these resources the research requires no additional funding and no other parties are involved. 
The data that will be generated in this project is not sensitive or protected according to the Oregon State University definition. As a student my research will belong to me, however the terms of use from the data sources must be considered in planning for future sharing and reuse. A majority of the data procured for the project will be from public databases on state and federal sites. Because they are readily publicly available and owned by the government they are free for anyone to use for any purpose, even for profit. However, the County Health Rankings site owned by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and University of Wisconsin Population Health Institute does have a terms of use policy that limits some use of the data. Users are allowed to “view, play, print and download content...for noncommercial purposes only”. This means that while use of the data is free of charge and the academic purposes of this project are within the terms of service some sharing and reuse of the data will need to be limited.
## 3. Data standards and metadata
The metadata standard that will be used to document data for this project will be the DDI framework. The XML format used for DDI will work well to manage the tabular data, as well as tracking versions of the regression that are generated as the project moves forward. The XML format is chosen because it is a standard file type that will be fitting for all types of data generated in this project. The information that will be recorded will include methodology, including the data sources and any manipulations to the data, descriptions of the variables including definitions and units, and overviews of the regression models. These will be taken from the CSV and SPSS files described in part 1 for storage in the XML format at the moment of sharing following final publication. The XCONVERT software tool will be used to convert the SPSS files into XML files in the DDI format, and manually enter metadata descriptions of the CSV data into the text files. It will be necessary to supplement the data table used for analysis with a tabular metadata file, for which I will use the DDI 3.0 Editor-Lite software. 
## 4. Storage and security
Over the course of the project version history will be stored both locally using a chronological “order-by-date” strategy with the ISO formatted date preceding the title, and backed up publicly using GitHub, as a secondary organizational tool. The data for this project will be stored in multiple locations over the course of the project. First, all files will be stored locally on my work computer, and automatically backed up daily on an external hard drive. Second, the data will be stored for temporary backup in the box cloud provided by Oregon State University in an institutional folder, until the time at which it is submitted for storage indefinitely in the data repository discussed in part four of this document. The overseeing professor will be given access to the box folder in which the data is stored and will back up the files locally on his hard drive that is located in a building separate from the first drive. The box versions will be automatically synched with the local versions on my computer and the overseeing professor’s to ensure the versions will be the same across backups. This will provide ample security in case of any unforeseen events that could lead to a loss of the data. The data will be stored on github as well, as a more permanent cloud solution because the storage is not dependent on the researcher’s status with the university. These backups will be retained at least until the time the data is shared publicly as described in the Access and Data Sharing section of this data management plan. 
## 5. Access and data sharing
The data generated for my project will all be shared publicly, and there is no sensitive data that will require special considerations. All data will be made publicly available at the time of publication in the Journal of Applied Econometrics Data Archive repository. However, because the dataset contains a derivative of data from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation’s County Health Rankings site it will need to be published under a non-commercial (CC BY-NC 4.0) license. All of the data will be submitted in CSV format, including the initial dataset, tabular metadata, and all regression results. The repository requires all appendices to be submitted in PDF format. For this project the appendices will include the regression models and some visual tools used for analysis like the residual plots. Because the data comes from reuse of public datasets all data generated by this project will be available for unlimited non-commercial reuse and redistribution and creation of derivatives once it is published in the repository. 
## 6. Archiving and preservation
The long term plan for preservation will rely on the Journal of Applied Econometrics Data Archive as described above. All data will be maintained locally and on github as well. Therefore, while the repository is highly reliable and has been in existence and funded by Queen’s University since 1994, there are backups in existence elsewhere. All archives will be stored in the CSV and PDF format. The backups will be maintained for at least five years following the initial release, although there are no plans to remove the data from the archives beyond the specified timeframe. 

